README.md, before:

# Playing with Spring AOP
Play! app that uses Spring AOP for authorization

## Overview

I chose the simple domain of mailboxes/conversations to illustrate how to use Spring AOP with Play! to protect various resources from unauthorized access.

In this sample app, some mailboxes are deemed to be "soft" deleted. Any resource associated with a soft deleted mailbox should return `404 Not Found`. Additionally, any new endpoints that contain a mailbox identifier should enforce the authorization check automatically.

For purposes of the example, the mailbox with ID = 99 is considered soft deleted.

Supported endpoints are listed below:
 
| HTTP Verb | Endpoint                                                     | Notes                                                                      |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/                                       | Gets a single mailbox                                                      |
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/conversations/:conversationId          | Gets a single conversation                                                 |
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/conversations/:conversationId/reversed | Gets a single conversation, except the order of the parameters is reversed |

## Usage

```bash
activator clean compile
activator run

curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1 ==> 200 OK
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/1 ==> 200 OK
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/1/reversed ==> 200 OK

curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99 ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99/conversations/1 ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99/conversations/1/reversed ==> 404 Not Found
```
 
## Targeting Endpoints with Mailbox IDs

The `MailboxGuardian` aspect is responsible for targeting all controller methods that contain an argument named `mailboxId`. If such an ID is found, the aspect checks that the corresponding mailbox is not deleted and vetoes the request if necessary. A veto is accomplished by throwing a `NotFoundException`, which ultimately gets mapped into a `404 Not Found` by `Global`.   

I originally tried to target `mailboxId` like this:

```java
@Before("execution(public * play.mvc.Controller+.*(..)) && args(..,mailboxId,..)")
public void checkMailboxAccess(Long mailboxId) {
  ...
}
```

However, there is an AspectJ compiler limitation to using more than one `..`. The aspect should detect a mailbox ID _anywhere_ in the method, so I had to refactor the aspect to target any controller method, and then manually check the parameters within the method:

```java
@Before("execution(public * play.mvc.Controller+.*(..))")
public void checkMailboxAccessIfMethodContainsMailboxId(JoinPoint joinPoint) {
  val parameters = parameters(joinPoint);

  if (parameters.containsKey("mailboxId")) {
    ...
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Add Several Enhancements
- Aspects now pass information to controller via the controller's static ctx() method.
- Aspects are now ordered by priority to ensure they're executed in the correct order.
- Some aspects call specific repository methods depending on context.

README.md, after:

# Playing with Spring AOP
Play! app that uses Spring AOP for authorization

## Overview
This sample app uses Play! with Spring AOP to enforce authorization checks that cut across several HTTP endpoints.

There are several fake endpoints using the simple domain of mailboxes/conversations to illustrate how this might be done in a real application.

| HTTP Verb | Endpoint                                                        | Notes                                                                      |
|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/                                          | Gets a single mailbox                                                      |
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/conversations/:conversationId             | Gets a single conversation                                                 |
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/conversations/:conversationId/reversed    | Gets a single conversation, except the order of the parameters is reversed |
| GET       | /mailboxes/:mailboxId/conversations/:conversationId/lightweight | Gets a "lightweight" version of a conversation                             |

## Functional Requirements
- In this sample app, some mailboxes/conversations are deemed to be "soft" deleted. Any resource associated with a soft deleted mailbox or conversation should return `404 Not Found`.
- New endpoints should enforce the authorization checks automatically when they are added.
- Mailbox authorization checks should be done _before_ conversation checks.
- A mailbox/conversation should only be retrieved once for a given request (i.e. not by both an aspect and controller).
- A controller should be able to provide a hint to allow an aspect to query for a particular form of the mailbox/conversation (e.g. a lightweight version vs. full).

## Usage
For purposes of the example, the mailbox and conversation with ID = 99 is considered soft deleted.

```bash
activator clean compile
activator run

curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1 ==> 200 OK
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/1 ==> 200 OK
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/1/reversed ==> 200 OK
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/1/lightweight ==> 200 OK

curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99 ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99/conversations/1 ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99/conversations/1/reversed ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/99/conversations/1/lightweight ==> 404 Not Found

curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/99 ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/99/reversed ==> 404 Not Found
curl http://localhost:9000/mailboxes/1/conversations/99/lightweight ==> 404 Not Found
```
 
## Targeting Endpoints with Mailbox IDs
The `MailboxGuardian` aspect is responsible for targeting all controller methods that contain an argument named `mailboxId`. If such an ID is found, the aspect checks that the corresponding mailbox is not deleted and vetoes the request if necessary. A veto is accomplished by throwing a `NotFoundException`, which ultimately gets mapped into a `404 Not Found` by `Global`.   

Ideally `mailboxId` could be targeted like this:

```java
@Before("execution(public * play.mvc.Controller+.*(..)) && args(..,mailboxId,..)")
public void checkMailboxAccess(Long mailboxId) {
  ...
}
```

However, there is an AspectJ compiler limitation to using more than one `..`. The aspect should detect a mailbox ID _anywhere_ in the method, so it's necessary to target any controller method, and then manually check the parameters within the method:

```java
@Before("execution(public * play.mvc.Controller+.*(..))")
public void checkMailboxAccessIfMethodContainsMailboxId(JoinPoint joinPoint) {
  val parameters = parameters(joinPoint);

  if (parameters.containsKey("mailboxId")) {
    ...
  }
}
```
